doc: Add release notes for 2.8 release (#18192)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/releases_and_maturity/releases/release-notes-2.8.0-preview1.rst

  * The ``#XCARRIERCFG="bootstrap_smartcard"`` AT command.

Thingy:53: Matter weather station
---------------------------------

* Added the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MATTER_ZAP_FILES_PATH` Kconfig option, which specifies ZAP files location for the application.
  By default, the option points to the :file:`src/default_zap` directory and can be changed to any path relative to application's location that contains the ZAP file and :file:`zap-generated` directory.

Samples
=======

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`sample <samples>`.

Amazon Sidewalk samples
-----------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Bluetooth samples
-----------------

* Added:

  * The :ref:`ble_radio_notification_conn_cb` sample demonstrating how to use the :ref:`ug_radio_notification_conn_cb` feature.
  * The :ref:`bluetooth_conn_time_synchronization` sample demonstrating microsecond-accurate synchronization of connections that are happening over Bluetooth® Low Energy Asynchronous Connection-oriented Logical transport (ACL).
  * The :ref:`ble_subrating` sample that showcases the effect of the LE Connection Subrating feature on the duty cycle of a connection.

>   * The :ref:`broadcast_configuration_tool` sample that implements the :ref:`BIS gateway mode <nrf53_audio_app_overview>` and may act as an `Auracast™`_ broadcaster if you are using a preset compatible with Auracast.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * The :ref:`nrf_auraconfig` sample that implements the :ref:`BIS gateway mode <nrf53_audio_app_overview>` and may act as an `Auracast™`_ broadcaster if you are using a preset compatible with Auracast.
```

* Added the ``SB_CONFIG_LWM2M_CARRIER_DIVIDED_DFU`` sysbuild Kconfig option that enables the generation of proprietary application update files required for the LwM2M carrier divided FOTA procedure.

* Removed the non-working support for configuring the NSIB signing key through the environmental or command line variable (``SB_SIGNING_KEY_FILE``) along with child image.

  .. note::
     This feature has never been functional.
     To configure the signing key, use any available Kconfig method.

* Deprecated the following devicetree properties:

  * ``owner-id``
  * ``perm-read``
  * ``perm-write``
  * ``perm-execute``
  * ``perm-secure``
  * ``non-secure-callable``

  It is recommended to replace them with the new devicetree property: ``nordic,access``.
  See the :ref:`migration guide <migration_2.8_recommended>` for more information.

* Removed the non-working support for configuring the NSIB signing key through the environmental or command line variable (``SB_SIGNING_KEY_FILE``) along with child image.

  .. note::
     This feature has never been functional.

>      To configure the signing key, use any available Kconfig method.

Reviewer 2: duplicated

* :ref:`lib_mqtt_helper` library:

  * Updated the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MQTT_HELPER_PROVISION_CERTIFICATES` Kconfig option to depend on :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TLS_CREDENTIALS` instead of specific boards.

* :ref:`lib_nrf_provisioning` library:

  * Added support for the ``SO_KEEPOPEN`` socket option to keep the socket open even during PDN disconnect and reconnect.
  * Updated the check interval logging to use INF to improve customer experience.

* :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_alert` library:

  * Updated to use INF log level when cloud side changes the alert enable flag.

Libraries for NFC
-----------------

* Added an experimental serialization of NFC tag 2 and tag 4 APIs.
* Fixed a potential issue with handling data pointers in the function ``ring_buf_get_data`` in the :file:`platform_internal_thread` file.

nRF RPC libraries
-----------------

* Added:

  * An experimental serialization of Openthread APIs.
  * The logging backend that sends logs through nRF RPC events.

* Updated the internal Bluetooth serialization API and Bluetooth callback proxy API to become part of the public NRF RPC API.

Other libraries
---------------

> * Added the :ref:`nrf_compression` library with support for the LZMA decompression.

Reviewer 2: -the
